---
title: '2018: Year in Film'
date: 2018-12-29 17:38:00 -06:00
tags:
- movies
- review
- year in film
custom_type: post
subtitle: Notable watched films from the past year
---

Watching movies is one of my favorite pastimes, so it's no surprise I've seen a lot this year—thirty-four of which were released in 2018. This is my new annual tradition of collecting my favorite [Letterboxd film reviews](https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/films/reviews/) from the past year that are too short to get [their own blog&nbsp;post](/topics/#movie-review).

<div class="toc-wrapper" id="post-table-of-contents">
  <h2 class="no_toc" id="toc-toggle">
    Table of Contents
    {% include icons/icon-chevron.html %}
  </h2>

  <ol id="markdown-toc">
    <li><a href="#black-panther">Black Panther</a></li>
    <li><a href="#maniac">Maniac</a></li>
    <li><a href="#sierra-burgess-is-a-loser">Sierra Burgess Is a Loser</a></li>
    <li><a href="#a-star-is-born">A Star Is Born</a></li>
    <li><a href="#to-all-the-boys-i-ve-loved-before">To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before</a></li>
    <li><a href="#crazy-rich-asians">Crazy Rich Asians</a></li>
    <li><a href="#mission-impossible-fallout">Mission: Impossible - Fallout</a></li>
    <li><a href="#ocean-s-eight">Ocean’s Eight</a></li>
    <li><a href="#incredibles-2">Incredibles 2</a></li>
    <li><a href="#solo-a-star-wars-story">Solo: A Star Wars Story</a></li>
    <li><a href="#the-week-of">The Week Of</a></li>
    <li><a href="#avengers-infinity-war">Avengers: Infinity War</a></li>
    <li><a href="#bao">Bao</a></li>
    <li><a href="#blockers">Blockers</a></li>
    <li><a href="#a-quiet-place">A Quiet Place</a></li>
    <li><a href="#get-out">Get Out</a></li>
    <li><a href="#there-s-something-about-mary">There’s Something About Mary</a></li>
    <li><a href="#big">Big</a></li>
  </ol>
</div>

{% include h-rating.html text="Black Panther" rating=4.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/black-panther-2018/" %}

Just from the trailer I knew this movie was going to be special. The actors, story, and score all deliver to create a film like never before. People were so hyped when it came out, and they still are because of what this movie means to so many: representation.

My only big gripe is Michael B. Jordan. He's mostly great, but there are clear scenes where his acting is over the top. I wish they would've asked him to tone it down a little. Other than that, _Black Panther_ is a fantastic film that doesn't take itself too seriously, yet talks about serious things, and introduces us to the rich culture, people, and beliefs of Wakandans.

{% include h-rating.html text="Maniac" rating=3.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/maniac-2018/" %}

Slower paced than I would’ve liked in some areas, but overall fantastic, weird, and wonderfully confusing. Jonah Hill delivers a performance I didn’t know he was capable of, and Emma Stone (as usual) is amazing.

{% include h-rating.html text="Sierra Burgess Is a Loser" rating=1 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/sierra-burgess-is-a-loser/" %}

Sierra _is_ a loser, unfortunately. She’s ok with catfishing someone, and then does something so unimaginably mean that I wasn’t able to like the character in the end.

{% include h-rating.html text="A Star Is Born" rating=5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/a-star-is-born-2018/" %}

Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga both deliver career-changing performances in what has turned out to be my favorite film of this year. The original songs are all great, and it's my belief that Gaga's "I'll Never Love Again" deserves any award it can possibly get. I cried like I've never cried watching a movie ever before, and I don't feel the least bit of shame.

{% include h-rating.html text="To All The Boys I've Loved Before" rating=3.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/to-all-the-boys-ive-loved-before/" %}

Corny yet satisfying rom-com. The guy is gorgeous. My goodness with that smile and scar. Wow.

{% include h-rating.html text="Crazy Rich Asians" rating=3.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/crazy-rich-asians/" %}

I loved seeing Asian culture celebrated with such an amazing cast. So much fun.

{% include h-rating.html text="Mission: Impossible - Fallout" rating=2.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/mission-impossible-fallout/" %}

Much like every other Tom Cruise movie these days. He plays the same character just with different names. He’s always a badass, and somehow is able to get himself out of any situation.

{% include h-rating.html text="Ocean's Eight" rating=2 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/oceans-eight/" %}

What a horrible use of such a fantastic cast of women. This could’ve been so much better, but instead it was a poor rehashing of what the previous movies already had done.

{% include h-rating.html text="Incredibles 2" rating=4 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/incredibles-2/" %}

Worth the wait. Brad Bird again delivers a cinematic masterpiece jam-packed with humor, action, tender family moments, spectacular animation, and lovable characters.

{% include h-rating.html text="Solo: A Star Wars Story" rating=3 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/solo-a-star-wars-story/" %}

My expectations were very low for this film, so I was pleasantly surprised by a movie I didn’t hate. Harrison Ford’s shoes are hard to fill, but I think Alden Ehrenreich did an ok job.

The standout is definitely Donald Glover who captures the essence of Billy Dee Williams all while making Lando’s character his own.

{% include h-rating.html text="The Week Of" rating=3 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/the-week-of/" %}

As dumb and ridiculous as an Adam Sandler film can be these days, there’s always heart at the core of the movie and this was no exception. It brought a tear to my eye.

{% include h-rating.html text="Avengers: Infinity War" rating=3.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/avengers-infinity-war/" %}

For an industry and genre known for predictable endings, this film takes the status quo and snaps it out of existence. I applaud the Russo Brothers for the story and the work involved in managing a cast of this size.

{% include h-rating.html text="Bao" rating=4 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/bao-2018/" %}

Made me tear up. Great story.

{% include h-rating.html text="Blockers" rating=3 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/blockers/" %}

John Cena is surprisingly good in this. It’s crazy, ridiculous, and funny—but ultimately it’s the story of loving your kids and having a hard time letting go. I enjoyed it.

{% include h-rating.html text="A Quiet Place" rating=4 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/a-quiet-place-2018/" %}

There’s no way I could’ve watched this in a theater; I would’ve had anxiety for days. There’s close to no dialogue in the film, which is a challenge this cast not only accepts, they embrace it to deliver a gripping story.

{% include h-rating.html text="Get Out" rating=5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/get-out-2017/" %}

I hesitated to watch this film due to its "horror" classification. I regret it. This isn't the film I ever would've thought Jordan Peele would make, but that's my error for boxing him in.

The movie is funny, but it's mostly terrifying, and it balances that juxtaposition excellently. And by terrifying, I don't mean moments that are meant to startle you, I mean terrifying in the sense of the anxiety and utter disappointment you'll feel as you analyze its message.

Definitely worth watching.

{% include h-rating.html text="There's Something About Mary" rating=3.5 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/theres-something-about-mary/" %}

Silly movie, but Mary’s character is great. Cameron Diaz is so charming in this.

{% include h-rating.html text="Big" rating=4 level=2 url="https://letterboxd.com/ttimsmith/film/big/" %}

Classic film. Can't believe Kelly had never watched it. Tom Hanks is wonderful in this film, and the scene of his first night in the city really drove that home for me. His relationship with Susan is weird to see as an adult though…
