---
title: The Exclusive RSS Club
date: 2018-01-03 15:09:00 -06:00
subtitle: A new exciting club of which you are a member
custom_type: post
is_rss_only: true
---

I was reading my RSS feeds like I normally do in the evening, and then I came across [this post by Dave Rupert](http://daverupert.com/2018/01/welcome-to-rss-club/). What a brilliant idea! Use RSS—and in this site's case, the newsletter—as a secret and exclusive club. So yes, I may already be violating rule number one of RSS Club by talking about it, but I figure I can adapt the rules to my liking.

My idea is to follow the rules that Dave set out (for the most part):

> 1. 1st rule of RSS Club is “Don’t Talk About RSS Club”.
> 2. 2nd rule of RSS Club is “Don’t Share on Social Media”.
> 3. 3rd rule of RSS Club is “Provide Value”.

I won't mention these special posts when promoting the newsletter or inviting people to subscribe, and I ask that you don't share the URL either. If you feel inclined to share, please encourage people to subscribe too so they can become part of the the Special RSS Club.

That last rule is not to be overlooked though. The thing I want the most is for this site to provide you some type of value. It's the same reason I'm doing [the end of the year survey](/2017/12/end-of-the-year-survey/). I care about you and what you want to read.

I think in this new year, that means more original content. Since the inception of this site, I've linked to pieces and offered my commentary. I don't plan on stopping that, but it feels too reactionary at times. Instead of finding things I have thoughts on, I tend to pile on to opinions already formed.

If I'm honest, this comes from a feeling of insecurity. I'm insecure of my writing quality; insecure of the quality of my opinions. Years ago, I would've blamed this on the site's lack of "success" (whatever that means). But as we all know insecurities don't depend on outside factors, they grow and feed from within.

Hence, the only way to address insecurities are to kill them internally. That's something I've told myself I need to work on this year. What others think be damned. Am I happy with who I am? Am I happy with the work I do? Instead of imitating the style and voice of others, have I found mine?

If nothing else, the past few years have taught me that we are in a constant state of progress. There is no graduation.

Welcome to RSS Club.
